Thank you for your participation, and again, coming to Gedhe here. It's so thankful.
And again, with the beginning of the practices, the teachings, or where we're starting, where we're
contemplating,
where we're meditating practices, always in the world, teaching highlights the importance of the,
to put, what's called, to activate it with motivation, the motivation. And because there are so
many motivations,
some motivations are the samsara motivation. That means cause of samsara and result of samsara
is the continuation of the samsara activities. And that we don't need now.
And so what we need, we need the motivation that will accelerate it and help and support to our
discover
on this time with the Dzoxchen state, the nature of the mind. Our Dzoxchen mind, or our trichaya
status,
the elected discoverer. And always in the teaching making, the enlightenment is not outside.
It is like here, with us. But then why we didn't see this? Because with our kind of mistakes,
or naive, or due to a kind of looking, something different direction with force or power of the
duality,
we carried with from the point of the nature. And therefore, then we distanced our own nature by
ourself.
And today we're returning back to discoverer of that innate nature. Therefore, to start with the
motivation,
that motivation is lined up with the nature of the trichaya, dharmakaya, sambhokaya, and dharmakaya
nature.
And that is lined up that. And so therefore, then we distended it, suggested it, we need to put joy
in appreciation.
Joy in appreciation, we're not joy in appreciation of all the samsara activities that we do.
We're not that one. This time we're very joy in appreciation. So our goodness qualities, what we
have,
what we are so honored. Things of the goodness qualities, that we really so honored.
Even we are midst of the midst of the samsara, but yet there are so many good qualities
that we are really prompted with love, compassion, joy, fortune, and all the abundance of qualities
that we have.
This all is so wonderful. It's beautiful. This is according to the Buddha's teaching. It's not just
came by itself.
It has cause and condition. That cause and condition is not somebody else's did and piled up to
earth because their kindness is completed.
No. According to the teaching, we accumulated those cause conditions in vast large times, even
though maybe we don't detect them.
But the result we are experiencing, that definitely we did according to the Buddha's teaching.
Therefore, we should appreciate and thankful of our past deeds that even we don't see right now.
Thankful and happy and joy, we did good in courage to our self. Appreciate.
And now what we need to do? That's not enough. Now we have to make that more stronger.
We did good things in past, but it's not enough. Still we are in samsara.
Still we are in the midst of all these ups and downs of the emotions and difficult challenge and
excitement, the anxieties and all these things.
We are really right in the middle of that.
But therefore, we have to go through these storms, these thunderstorms. We have to go through.
And nobody else is going to make us go that way. The Buddha's teaching says they give the teaching
and stalking us.
But we have to put jobs. We have to put activities.
And that is motivation. Start the motivation. Power of the mind.
Mind is so important, I mean the teaching says, and we all understand really.
When we think carefully, mind is so important. So important.
Mind controls every of our directions, our perceptions, our conceptions, our ideas, our way of
thinking, the ideas, everything.
No one else controls it unless we believe. That belief is also mine too. It's not something that,
something.
So it's not something that really else controls it. It's our self.
We have every tools and every powers and every engagement, and every end-stockings we receive. And
you all know this.
And for example, we are now engaging with Doki teaching and Doki meditation practice. We all know
that.
But this Doki is not just only intellectual. And we receive that and then just let it go.
That is not going to help us. Completely what we want to. Like to get or what in the teaching said,
it will help.
That's not going to help. What we have to do after receiving the teaching, with joy and with
appreciation, with devotion, with humble, with humility.
Do unto the earth, in honor, receive that precious, precious golden necklace and absorb that in the
heart and mind.
And how to absorb in the heart and mind? Practice. Practices will be absorbing that in the heart
and mind.
I'm just honoring, I'm respect, I'm appreciate, which is good, but it's not going to absorb that.
To make it change our self.
Truly we have to practice. That is absorbing, that is engaging, that is improving.
Therefore, this motivation starts with good motivation, good heart.
In samsara, always said, oh, that person has good eyes. He has or she has good heart. That is that
good heart.
Now, this is, this time, not that good heart is kind of limited, but both each other.
Joy and appreciation, love and kindness, comparing it to all beings.
Even the joy, even the docket, even the body, really sincerely feel in the heart. Heart, the
greatest benefit of all human beings.
Remove all the suffering, difficulty, challenges. So many things are going on in samsara.
This is something we can contribute to. Toward the world, please. Toward removing the suffering and
trouble in the world.
With our good heart and good intention and with praise. Those are, those are maybe very kinder and
many things, many times we think, oh, those are kinder, there is a basic.
But this basic is so important. We do the basic, we won't discover the greatness of the basics.
Everything is relying on the basics. So important. Joy and appreciation.
When you think of the really true joy and appreciation and bodhicata, that state of mind, you look
very little.
Little anger. Jealous. Eighty talk. And worries. Israeli strength. Calm and peaceful. Happy.
That is what we call basic, but that is essence. Essence teaching.
If we touch to that, we are touching to the goal of the essence of our nature.
Even good, we have been practicing so many years, but we have to touch, we have to really glorify
our joy in the appreciation, appreciation and bodhicata.
And then bodhicata is what we call is love and kindness and compassion.
That's the teaching said. But this love and compassion, bodhicata, compassion and kindness is not
limited to love and compassion.
Bodhicata's love and compassion has no boundaries. That is bodhicata love.
Not just love and compassion. It is so good, so important.
That's the value and the richness of the human beings or the beings, because they start reflecting
from primordial stages.
It's so special, but boneless love or limited love, that is bodhicata love.
There's no boundaries, no restructures. No khandra like khandra like this, this way our life is
love, this way not undone love.
It's always pervasive. That is love and compassion. And so powerful.
That is the core of the Heartway Enlightenment. That is bodhicata.
That is zhoqin, absolute bodhicata, zhoqin teachings. So it's so important.
Again, thinking of all living beings, we all know this, we all know, we all do practice it.
But we have to activate that, really, sincerely from the heart and mind.
And we do those things. Then this poor renunciation also will settle down so nicely.
We know poor renunciation, or for this poor point that will change the mind.
We've heard it so many times. But how much we are engaging and really reflecting on that once.
And precious lives. And think of that, precious lives.
Why is precious lives, in the Buddha's teaching said, difficult to obtain these precious lives?
Why is it difficult? And think that carefully.
In Buddhism, what is in the Buddha's teaching said, it didn't endowments, or add freedoms in a ten
acious.
How many times we reflect into the add freedoms? What add freedoms?
Add freedoms, poor freedoms are the non-humans. And poor freedoms are human beings, connected with
human beings.
But how much we reflect? That also indicates, the life is, we take lives, we take the rebirth.
Our rebirth is not just our choice.
Our choice, kind of what we want. Do everything what we like to do, but we like to have our choice.
No. It's also, according to the teaching, it's all with karmas.
Who does karma? We do now.
Karma is what? Again, no other than the mind. Mind is broken.
So if we like to have really turned our rebirth from the lower realms, it's always in the teaching
said, right now, turn the mind from the negativities.
Cause of the negativity, take the result as rebirth and three lower realms.
So then, these three lower realms, and as well as asuras, or the God realms, those are four non-
human realms.
We are out of that. And plus add four freedoms of the human beings. We are also out of that.
So we have the all freedoms. And you, I'm sure you read those things, but you think that, really.
Today you think that, and tomorrow you can have, we will understand all tonight, we're going to
understand what are those add.
Add. Just think that. And then add three, ten luxuries.
Five luxuries related with our self, own self, and five luxuries related with others.
And that is, we also have ten luxuries. You know that. You heard that. We heard that. Not just you,
I heard, we heard, all that.
But how many times we reflected. And when we reflected that, what it makes our lives more precious,
more rich.
Really, it's so precious, so rich, so important. And then maybe some degree of courage and
commitment, I'm going to make this meaningful life.
Meaningful life is not something that we have to make strange things. It's just a more culturally
kindness, compassion, more relaxed.
Not carry the force of the emotions and negativities, as always it does. And that is really, anyway
, we cannot carry them.
We can't self-contain our self. Subscure our self with very gentle, peaceful way. That is not a
meaningful life.
Then it makes meaning to these spaces, as schools. So therefore, this motivation is so important.
Of course, we all know that.
But yes, I highlight that to them as much as I can. And together with this, then the very other
teaching.
And the Dokki teaching is a Three Caiya status. All Three Caiya in the Dokki teaching, Dharma Caiya
, Sambo Caiya, Narmak Caiya status.
That is according teaching is realities. It's really true. It's true. But we are not seeing that
right now, because of due to our mistakes.
Mistakes of the long time. And we just completely kind of cover up by our self. Ourself. So now we
are exploring that.
We are also exploring that Three Caiya, Caiya, Trejure by the simple thing of the Dokki techniques.
Dokki is the most powerful teaching and a technician in the teaching state. It is swiftly
discovered in techniques.
But even though Dokki is so self-powerful and is quickly discovered in nature, but we have to again
have the courage, commitment, and bodhijaka, and devotion.
All that we need. Why we needed that? Because they are the line of the pre-emotional nature.
And that when we cultivating those attitude and told, what is known as indigeneable teaching,
accumulation merit. That's called accumulation merit.
In one sitting we are accumulating two merit, accumulation, joy, appreciation, bodhijaka, devotion
als. All those are accumulation merit practices.
And then this Dokki merit taking itself, most merit. So in one sitting we are accomplishing two
merits.
In other words, joy, we concentrate on that. Joy, appreciation, bodhijaka, those are generously
practiced paramata and morality paramata, patient paramatas, and concentration paramatas.
And then your effort is supported to that. And also it is Dokki merit taking itself versus the
paramata.
So therefore, even in one sitting we are accomplishing six paramata practices, completely.
And therefore, in the Buddha teaching and all the great masters, in order to discover the
realization of the true nature or the enlightenment, we need two wings of the accumulation.
Accumulation merit versus merit. Both are so important. So joy, appreciation, devotion, prayers.
The realists were not underestimating prayers. In the body together, the relative true body
together, all those are accumulation merit practices.
All are practiced. Then once the year has completed and looking to the nature of the mind,
wrestling the nature of the mind, a call to Dokki.
That is the Western merit. So in one sitting we are accomplishing two merits.
So those are, in the teaching, said that. So we have always activated those thoughts, and as much
as we can, it's so important.
And those reasons, also we're not always in the teaching, said Mundo practice. So important. A
foundation practice, what we call in the individual Mundo practice.
Mundo is a foundation practice. A foundation practice is so important.
Otherwise Dokki teaching is so pervasive and so kind of like in a way, in a very special space. S-B
-C-E, I think space.
It's kind of pervasive space. And therefore, then you kind of carry with that pulse.
And of course, if not absorbed so nicely, then we use the mistakes. Then we get wrong views of the
Dokki.
Dokki views and wrong, again, meditation of the Dokki meditation and wrong conduct of the Dokki
meditation.
Then we kind of dilute our views, meditation and conduct, all that. And then the result will be
diluted.
Then we won't get there for this foundation. Mundo practices is so important. Mundo practice is
mainly focused on the accumulation practice.
Accumulation practice, such as poor renunciation, reflecting poor renunciation.
Which is the essence of teaching of the Buddha as opposed to the noble truth. To the noble truth.
Suffering truth, the cause of suffering truth.
That is called renunciation thought. It is really the essence of that. Of the dispersed truth.
Then the Mundo practice, those of which sometimes they are called the common Mundo practice.
Common Mundo, poor renunciation thought. Common Mundo.
What means common is actually? Common means the gender. It's not mysterious. It's not just a
Buddhist dogma.
It's not just a believer's thinking. That's the fact, reality.
Pressure, however, is precious to everyone, whether you believe or not, or whether you are
practicing or not, is it?
Life is precious. It's common. Common understanding.
Even those who don't have any belief that you are asking someone, your life is precious.
It's definitely a diversity. It's precious. It's so special.
But we think they are more deeper. This precious life is not just kept by accident.
This has something cause and condition, but how wonderful we are at that.
Now I have to not spoil these spiritual lives. I like to make something beautiful.
For my future and future of all the living beings.
Really thinking was sincerely hard. That is extra going for our knowledge and wisdom.
Otherwise, everyone knows life is precious. For that reason, it's common.
Reflecting. See the treasure as treasure is known as wise is known.
A person is an expert. That's a wise person. Wise man, men and women.
See the precious as precious. And then second is what? In Patmanet.
In Patmanet, it's also not something only the believers are thinking or the Buddhists are thinking.
It's the reality, the fact of the phenomenon.
No one says it's going to exist forever. And how is time changing?
Summer, spring. Or spring, summer, autumn, winter.
And every minute or day, 24 hours, it's changing. And we change too.
From the time we are the mother or parents ten whole in our day in the two farms, now we are what
we are.
This is all that. Reflecting on that.
That means in the Buddhist world, Buddha teaching says, it makes our heart more soft, more tender.
We become more practical. Not wasting time.
Wasting time uselessly. And using time, then we use time.
What not just wasting time, but it's kind of bouncing the priest to our own head by ourself.
We spoil that. So have courage in commitment. Time is our sight.
Time is right now with me. I should use this for better purposes.
Have courage in commitment, combine it with the bodhicam that I really like to have.
And to improve myself, remove my difficulty, suffering troubles.
Follow with the footsteps of all those ancient great masters, great practitioners who practice and
meditate.
And follow this path. Same path.
It's not that they follow something different path and they become the enlightenment of a greater
master.
Exactly what we do. This is the same path.
Then the next one, that's called Koman.
Koman Hindu practices. Koman Hindu practices is so important, so spacious.
And then second one, third story, third one is what?
That cause and effort are inevitable. That is not mystery again.
This is not Buddhism, dogma or specials of Buddhism.
Everybody knows. The farmers knows. That's what they plant the seeds.
And the people do everything their money is to go.
Young children go to the college, the schools, and get high degrees, so they have future lives.
Future or better come to life. Everything.
That means they know the cause. If you have a good cause, they have better results.
Cause and effort are inevitable. It's true.
If a good cause, it has good results.
If it's a bad cause, it has bad results.
If it's a good and bad mixture, cause and then result is also mixture.
That is, again, Koman knowledge.
Paribuddha said, again, it goes a little deeper, more strong.
So that is all good and bad. It's not just externally happening.
It's fundamentally, it's the mind. It's karma.
Karma is not coming from outside. It's produce of our own mind.
Good mental state of the mind produces the good karmas.
Bad mental state of the karmas.
Our bad mental state produces the bad karma.
So bad karma and good karma is not coming from outside or nor is overloaded by someone.
It's one's own creations.
Therefore, we like to have good things. Good things.
One with our mind. And we like to avoid bad things. One with our mind.
For that reason, the greatest feature of Buddha Hekta Muni said in the teaching,
cause of suffering truths.
Cause of suffering truths.
So let me, cause of samsara is not outside. It's our own mind.
So we like to reverse the samsara, samsara. Walk with the mind.
That's the one of the first day Buddha's teaching.
So the next one is samsara.
Samsara has a lot of difficult challenges.
That is also not a mystery, not conversation, Buddhist speciality.
Everybody knows, many of us, all that's the goal.
Even those who don't really have any beliefs say in the samsara has a difficulty,
or the world has a difficulty.
In this world there is many challenges and difficulties.
If that is, for a reflecting reason, Buddhism goes a little deeper.
Samsara is not just only what we see.
But according to Buddhism, there is six realms.
All the six realms are going different challenges, difficulty, troubles.
Six realms are our destinations that we don't change our mind.
That is our destination.
According to our karma, our destination can be in a whole, those different realms.
So if we like to change the destination of the samsara, change with this mind.
That's really the teaching field, and it's true.
Our mind is so powerful, it produces.
For that reason the Rachel's teacher, Buddha Kya Kya Manu said,
"Say, tame your mind."
This is the teaching of the Buddha.
"Tame our mind."
Buddha did not say, "Tame your body."
That is the teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha did not say, "Tame your speech."
That's the teaching of the Buddha.
"Tame your mind."
That is Buddha teaching.
So taming the mind is observing the teaching into the heart.
What we tamed, tamed mind.
Tamed the wild mind.
What is the wild mind?
Anger, jealous, and the combination of the anger and jealous ignorance, arrogance.
And then there is all those six different emotions.
Twenty sub-emotions in the Abhidhana measures.
All those are negative emotions.
Those are wild.
Those are wild, and those are the disturbances.
Those are the obstacles for those reasons in the teaching said.
What did the Buddha teach?
There is no more dangerous than our own mind.
In the three realms of all, in the desire realm, the home brain, the homeless realm,
there is not any more dangerous to ourselves than our own mind.
Our own mind is the most dangerous to ourselves, and we do not control.
And we don't really provide.
And we control, and we really take care of that.
Then to discover the treasure of our mind is so superior, even in the teaching said,
there is no more better treasures in the three worlds, or in the samsara, nirvana,
to discover of one's own innate nature of the mind.
The reward is so beautiful, extreme, but also parallel, or the wrong side is so powerful.
If we come to that mind case, or duality mind, really let it go, carry that.
So those are the teachings.
And of course, we all know this. We all heard this.
But it is again our time to share sangha members, we just remind each other.
That's what's called sangha, support each other along the path.
We are all going together as much as we can do,
with part of the Buddha and the Virabhama sambhava, and support each other.
So reminding that, in a way, we all know those things.
But taking care of this mind, so important.
And we all understand it. Now we go to this chakra.